{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue27;\red18\green0\blue233;
\red24\green25\blue27;\red18\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c12591\c12986\c14131;\cssrgb\c10160\c10292\c93230;
\cssrgb\c12591\c12986\c14131;\cssrgb\c10160\c10292\c93230;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww26640\viewh16580\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 The Laboratory of Urban Transport Systems (LUTS) of the \'c9cole Polytechnique F\'e9d\'e9rale de Lausanne (EPFL) conducted a first-of-its-kind experiment, deploying a swarm of drones in October 2018 over the city of Athens, Greece to record traffic streams. pNEUMA is a unique observatory for traffic congestion with data that did not exist before at this resolution and scale. More information on the experiment can be found in the associated article "\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Barmpounakis, E., Geroliminis, N., 2020. On the new era of urban traffic monitoring with massive drone data: The pNEUMA large-scale field experiment. Transp. Res. Part C Emerg. Technol. 111, 50\'9671, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/url?q=https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.11.023&sa=D&ust=1580226007553000&usg=AFQjCNHuhCe-PCMR9PV2QbgSr2JOKdJCQw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.11.023}}\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ".\
\
The data from this urban and complex environment can allow different kinds of transportation phenomena to be tested in both microscopic and macroscopic scale for different research disciplines. By distributing this dataset for non-commercial purposes, academic researchers can reproduce, verify and build on existing models in various transportation thematic areas and to perform original research from an open benchmark dataset.\
\
**The pNEUMA dataset will become fully available in the following months. Until then, a sample dataset is openly shared with researchers so that they get more familiar with the data and start preparing their codes and applications.**\
\
Description of the dataset\
The sample dataset was collected during 10:00-10:30 from the intersection of the Alexandras and 28is Oktovriou avenue. For the specific .csv file the following apply:\
- each row represents the data of a single vehicle\
- the first 10 columns in the 1st row include the columns' names\
- the last 6 columns are then repeated every 6 columns based on 0.04 sec time frequency. For example, column_5 contains the latitude of the vehicle at time column_10, and column\'ad\'ad\'ad_11 contains the latitude of the vehicle at time column_16.\
\
The columns that are included in the dataset are:\
- track_id: unique id for every vehicle per dataset\
- type: [Car, Taxi, Bus,  Medium Vehicle, Heavy Vehicle, Motorcycle]\
- traveled_distance: distance travelled by the specific vehicle for the specific dataset [m]\
- avg_speed: average speed of the specific vehicle for the specific dataset [km/h]\
- lat: latitude in WGS-84 coordinates at specific time [deg]\
- lon: longitude in WGS-84 coordinates at specific time [deg]\
- speed: instant speed at specific time [km/h]\
- tan_accel: instant tangential acceleration at specific time [ms-2]\
- lat_accel: instant lateral acceleration at specific time [ms-2]\
- time: timestamp starting from the start of the video [ms]\
\
** When vehicles are tracked for different durations, there is a different number of columns per row. This may cause some problems when importing the dataset based on the software/programming language that is used. **\
\
User Agreement\
The pNEUMA dataset consists of trajectory data in WGS-84 coordinates. The description of the experiment and the dataset can be found in the relevant article: "\cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Barmpounakis, E., Geroliminis, N., 2020. On the new era of urban traffic monitoring with massive drone data: The pNEUMA large-scale field experiment. Transp. Res. Part C Emerg. Technol. 111, 50\'9671, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/url?q=https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.11.023&sa=D&ust=1580226007553000&usg=AFQjCNHuhCe-PCMR9PV2QbgSr2JOKdJCQw"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.11.023}}\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ". By downloading the pNEUMA dataset, the user acknowledges that:\
- The data will be used only for academic, non-commercial purposes\
- For any publication that utilises the pNEUMA dataset, authors should include a reference to the following article "\cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Barmpounakis, E., Geroliminis, N., 2020. On the new era of urban traffic monitoring with massive drone data: The pNEUMA large-scale field experiment. Transp. Res. Part C Emerg. Technol. 111, 50\'9671, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/url?q=https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.11.023&sa=D&ust=1580226007553000&usg=AFQjCNHuhCe-PCMR9PV2QbgSr2JOKdJCQw"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.11.023}}\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 " and include "Data source: pNEUMA - open-traffic.epfl.ch" in the acknowledgment section.\
- As the data is distributed for free, redistribution is not allowed.\
- It is strongly recommended that all the algorithms and models developed with pNEUMA data should follow an open science initiative. All algorithms and codes developed for this data is recommended to be provided by the authors to the community to allow comparisons of various models.}